
--- Page 1 ---
 
Controlled Doc. # EDCS-25616378 Ver: 1.0 Last Modified: Mon Feb 24 13:47:21 PST 2025 
CISCO PUBLIC INFORMATION, AI Defense OD.docx 
         
 
Offer Description – Product  
AI Defense  
This Offer Description is part of the General Terms or similar terms existing between You and Cisco (e.g., the 
End User License Agreement) (the “Agreement”). Capitalized terms, unless defined in this document, have 
the meaning in the Agreement. Any references to a Supplemental End User License Agreement or SEULA 
mean Offer Description.  
1. Summary 
AI Defense (the “Product”) includes Software and/or Cloud Services to protect Your Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Applications.  
• AI Runtime helps safeguard production AI applications against adversarial attacks, sensitive data leaks, 
and harmful responses in real-time.  
• AI Validation helps identify security and safety vulnerabilities in AI models so You can understand the 
risks and protect against them.  
• AI Visibility discovers enterprise AI assets running in Your organization’s public and virtual cloud 
environments.  
• AI Access finds third -party and shadow AI Applications being used by employees across Your 
organization and protect against sensitive data loss, threats, and safety risks. 
2. Support and Other Services 
Your purchase of Cisco AI Defense includes Enhanced Support. Premium Support is an optional add-on. 
Cisco will provide You with support for the Product as described here.  
3. Performance Standards 
The AI Defense Service Level Objective (“SLO”) applies to the Cloud Service version of the Product.  
4. Data Protection 
The Privacy Data Sheet for AI Defense (available at Cisco’s Trust Portal) describes the Personal Data that 
Cisco collects and processes as part of delivering the Product.  
5. Special Terms 
5.1 Meter and Usage. The Product subscription price is based on the quantity of AI Applications.  The 
Product features You are entitled to use are defined by the AI Defense subscription package 
purchased (e.g., Advantage, Validation Essentials, or Runtime Essentials) and described in the 
Documentation.  
 

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 3 
 
Controlled Doc. # EDCS-25616378 Ver: 1.0 Last Modified: Mon Feb 24 13:47:21 PST 2025 
CISCO PUBLIC INFORMATION, AI Defense OD.docx 
 
5.2 AI Validation. If You purchase an AI Defense subscription package with AI Validation, the Product 
uses attack prompts to test Your AI Application. Such attack prompts are considered Cisco Content. 
You may not use the Product’s attack prompts and related reports to develop any products or 
models that compete with the Product. You may not use the Product’s attack prompts to train any 
AI models.  
5.3 AI Visibility. If You purchase a Product subscription package with AI Visibility, You will be entitled to 
use the Cisco Multicloud Defense Controller. For Advantage and Runtime Essential subscription 
packages, You will be entitled to Cisco Multicloud Defense Premier, spe cifically 3,504 Gateway 
Hours per AI Application per year. You understand that if You exceed Your entitled Gateway Hours, 
Cisco will work with You to assess utilization/consumption and may require You to purchase 
additional Gateway Hours. Ci sco Multicloud Defense is subject to its individual Offer Description 
located at https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/legal/cloud-and-software/software-terms.html.  
5.4 AI Runtime . For AI Defense Runtime, the subscription package assumes you will use a total 
aggregate query limitation of 10 million per AI Application per year.  In the event of continuous 
excessive usage, You and Cisco will work in good faith to try and resolve any excessive usage.  
5.5 AI Access. AI Access is only available for use with Cisco Secure Access  with the Secure Access 
Advantage Package.  
5.6 Subscription Start Date; Claim Code . You will receive a subscription claim code via email at the 
requested start date (RSD). The claim code enables You to (i) set up Your subscription in Security 
Provisioning and Administration, and (ii) provision and access the Product. Your subscription will 
commence on the RSD whether You elect to provision the Product on the RSD or delay provisioning 
of the Product. 
5.7 Mid-Term Changes. During the Product subscription term, You can upgrade Your subscription to a 
higher tier by placing an upgrade order through Your Approved Source, but You cannot downgrade 
Your subscription to a lower tier. 
5.8 Software Updates. For hybrid deployments, Cisco reserves the right to automatically update the 
Product to the most recent version of the Software; however, You will have the option to schedule 
or defer Your automatic updates. You may delay updates provided that Your curre nt Software 
version is still supported by  Cisco. You understand and agree that delaying updates to the latest 
Software release may introduce security risks to Your environment and Cisco is not responsible for 
any security-related incidents that result from that delay. 
5.9 Competitive Testing. You will not publish or disclose to any third party any Product performance 
information or analysis (e.g., the result of benchmark or competitive testing) except with Cisco’s 
advance written permission.  
5.10 Disclaimer  
(A) While Cisco has used commercially reasonable efforts to create effective security and safety 
technologies, due to the continual development of new techniques for intruding upon and 
attacking AI Applications, Cisco does not represent or warrant that the Product will guarantee 
absolute safety and security or that it will protect Your AI Applications against all security attacks 
or threats.  
(B) You are responsible for (i) configuring the Product (including selecting the desired guardrails) 
and updates as needed from time to time to align with  Your AI governance framework and 
policies, (ii) determining what actions to take (if any), based on results or recommendations 
generated by the Product, and (iii) complying with all applicable laws related to Your use and 
development of AI. 
--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 3 
 
Controlled Doc. # EDCS-25616378 Ver: 1.0 Last Modified: Mon Feb 24 13:47:21 PST 2025 
CISCO PUBLIC INFORMATION, AI Defense OD.docx 
 
(C) Attack prompts are intended to provide an assessment of vulnerabilities, including but not 
limited to security and safety, related to the configured guardrails. Depending on the guardrails 
You configure, attack prompts from AI Validation may include attack prompts that are offensive 
or not aligned with the views and values of Cisco.  
5.11 Definitions 
Term Meaning 
AI Application  Software system that utilizes Artificial Intelligence (AI) or machine 
learning model(s) as a core component in order to automate specific 
tasks or services. 
Gateway Hour See Cisco Multicloud Defense Offer Description.  
 