
--- Page 1 ---
At a glance  Cisco public
© 2025  Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
Cisco AI PODs 
© 2025  Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
--- Page 2 ---
At a glance  Cisco public
© 2025  Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
Overview
Companies around the world, in every industry, are keen to leverage AI to transform their business, 
improve customer satisfaction, and gain a competitive advantage. Deploying enterprise AI 
applications, especially generative AI, is a complex process that requires careful planning, evaluation 
of models and infrastructure, and execution. Enterprises often face challenges when scaling AI 
infrastructure, ensuring data privacy and security, and bridging the skills gap. Cisco AI PODs simplify 
and accelerate full AI lifecycle deployment with pre-validated, high-performance infrastructure, 
empowering developers and IT Ops to innovate sustainably in the Cisco Secure AI Factory with 
Nvidia. Cisco can help you to right-size your investment in AI-related infrastructure while balancing 
current business and IT needs, with a view to scalability in the future.
What is the full AI lifecycle?
The full AI lifecycle encompasses several critical stages:
• On-premises training:  This involves developing and training AI models, such as Large Language 
Models (LLMs) or deep neural networks, using local infrastructure to process large datasets and 
optimize model parameters. It is compute-intensive and requires high-performance hardware and 
robust data management.
• Model optimization (fine-tuning, RAG):  This stage refines pre-trained AI models to improve 
accuracy or adapt them for specific tasks (fine-tuning) and enhances LLMs with real-time data 
retrieval (Retrieval-Augmented Generation, RAG). Fine-tuning adjusts model weights, and RAG 
integrates external knowledge bases for context-aware responses.
• Model inferencing:  Inferencing involves deploying trained AI models to generate predictions or 
decisions, either at scale in data centers or in real time at distributed-edge locations. Large-scale 
inferencing handles high-volume workloads, and edge inferencing prioritizes low latency for time-
sensitive applications.
Benefits
• Accelerate AI adoption and deployment 
by leveraging pre-validated, full-stack 
infrastructure and unified management, 
drastically reducing setup time.
• Drive superior AI workload performance 
with cutting-edge GPUs and high-
bandwidth networking, achieving faster 
training and seamless scalability for 
diverse AI applications.
• Ensure enterprise-grade security and 
compliance with robust data protection 
and sovereignty while also achieving 
sustainability goals through energy-
efficient designs.
• Empower AI developers to build and 
deploy models faster with seamless 
integration of leading software stacks 
and robust APIs.
© 2025  Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
--- Page 3 ---
At a glance  Cisco public
© 2025  Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
Cisco AI PODs solution
Training
Extend To
Cisco Security
AI Defense Hypershield
Operations
Accelerated Compute
Intersight® and
Nexus Dashboard
Integrated solutions to expand architecture simplicity beyond infrastructure
High-Performance
Networking
Extend to
Storage Platform
Ecosystem
OS/K8S
Automation AI Software
Advanced
Services
Included
Firewall/Nexus® SmartSwitch
Observability
Observability Cloud
Open telemetry extensions
Workload Management & OPS
InferencingOptimization
Cisco AI PODs
NIM Operator
NeMo
CUDA
Cisco
Customer ExperienceCisco NEXUS
Cisco UCS®
Figure 1.  Cisco AI PODs Solution
Cisco AI PODs, initially launched for inferencing solutions, are expanding to support the full technical 
lifecycle of AI deployments, including training, fine-tuning, and inferencing. They are based on 
validated architectural stacks and fabric designs, providing a blueprint for deployment that is 
referenceable and essentially “off the shelf.” They include software tools and components, with 
extensions for observability (Splunk®) and security (AI Defense, Hypershield), making them orderable 
as part of one ecosystem with a consolidated support model.
Why Cisco® AI PODs? 
• Simplified deployment: Pre-validated 
designs (Cisco Validated Designs, or CVDs) 
and Cisco Intersight reduce setup time by 
up to 50 percent, enabling AI developers to 
focus on innovation and ITOps to streamline 
operations.
• High performance and scalability:  
Powered by NVIDIA, AMD GPUs, and Cisco 
high-performance networking, AI PODs 
accelerate training by up to 30 percent and 
scale inference seamlessly, meeting diverse 
workload demands.
• Enterprise-grade security:  Hypershield and 
Cisco AI Defense ensure compliance and 
data sovereignty, giving I Ops peace of mind 
and developers a trusted platform.
• Developer empowerment:  Integration with 
RedHat Openshift, PyTorch, TensorFlow, 
and NVIDIA AI Enterprise empowers AI 
developers to build and deploy models faster, 
supported by robust APIs and tutorials.
• Sustainability and cost-effectiveness: 
Energy-efficient designs cut power costs, 
maximizing ROI for ITOps while aligning with 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
goals.
--- Page 4 ---
At a glance  Cisco public
What it does
Cisco has been developing and providing validated 
designs for more than 20 years. Cisco Validated 
Designs (CVDs) are comprehensive, rigorously 
tested guidelines that help customers deploy and 
manage IT infrastructure effectively. They include 
detailed implementation guides, best practices, 
and real-world use cases, often incorporating 
Cisco technology partner products. CVDs reduce 
deployment risk, optimize performance, and 
ensure scalability, all while being supported by the 
Cisco Technical Assistance Center (Cisco TAC). 
This support and integration provide customers 
with a reliable and efficient path to achieving their 
business objectives.
Cisco AI PODs for the full AI lifecycle are 
CVD-based solutions for inferencing, model 
optimization, and training, covering edge and 
core deployments. They provide accelerated 
deployment with centralized management 
and automation. The solution has been 
performance-tested and demonstrates linear 
scalability through benchmark tests on real-
life model simulation, showcasing consistent 
performance even with varying dataset sizes. 
Cisco AI PODs have independent scalability at 
each layer of infrastructure and are perfect for 
data-center and edge AI deployments. They 
are designed to fit customer cost-models and 
are easy to manage, with use of Cisco smart 
switches for demarcation and segmentation in 
modern data centers.
Regardless of the configuration, they all contain:
• Cisco UCS C845A (PCIE GPU) and 885A 
(HGX&OAM) M8, and X-Series servers.
• Cisco Nexus 9000 Switches.
• Cisco Intersight (SaaS management).
• NVIDIA AI Enterprise.
• RedHat OpenShift.
• Ansible, Terraform Automation.
• Cisco CX Services.
Optional storage is also available from 
NetApp, Pure Storage, and VAST Data. These 
partners provide data-platform solutions to 
help developers and data scientists perform 
numerous data management tasks.
Learn more
• For more in-depth information on the 
Cisco AI PODs, refer to the data sheet.
• For information on all Cisco AI–native 
infrastructure for the data center, 
visit Cisco.com.
• For more information on the Cisco UCS 
X-Series Modular System, visit https://www.
cisco.com/go/ucsx.
• For more information on the Cisco UCS 
C-Series Rack Servers for AI, visit https://
www.cisco.com/site/us/en/products/
computing/servers-unified-computing-
systems/ucs-c-series-rack-servers/index.
html.
For more information
Book an expert consultation to start 
your AI-ready infrastructure journey
Receive expert guidance on modernizing 
your network and compute infrastructure 
with AI-ready infrastructure—combining 
technologies, products, and Cisco Validated 
Designs to support and scale AI workloads, 
all while advancing sustainability initiatives.
Get Started
Our experts recommend  BIOS Performance 
and workload: Tuning guide for Cisco UCS 
M8 Platforms White Paper.
Cisco UCS Servers with Intel® Xeon® 6 
CPUs FAQ.
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. 
Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1110R) C45-5272351-00   07/25