
--- Page 1 ---
1
Cisco Public
The Cisco Responsible  
AI Framework
Trustworthy AI by Design
At Cisco, we appreciate that Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be leveraged to power an inclusive future for all. We 
also recognize that by applying this technology, we have a responsibility to mitigate potential harm. That is why we 
have developed the six Principles for Responsible Artificial Intelligence of Transparency, Fairness, Accountability, 
Privacy, Security and Reliability – all necessary for promoting and enabling safe and trustworthy AI.
To implement these principles, we have a Responsible AI Framework that can be applied to the development, 
deployment and/or use of AI by Cisco, whether in developing a product or model for our customers and partners 
to use, integrating and building upon a third-party model for unique offerings, or providing AI tools or services 
for our own, internal operations. In practice, we strive to bring these principles to life by combining Security 
by Design, Privacy by Design, and Human Rights by Design to surface and mitigate risks to provide AI that is 
responsible and trustworthy.
--- Page 2 ---
2
Cisco Public
The Responsible AI Framework
Guidance and Oversight •  Provide leadership oversight through a Responsible AI Committee of senior 
executives across Cisco engineering, sales, privacy, security, human rights, legal, 
government affairs, human resources, and other functions.
•  Advise Cisco on Responsible AI practices and oversees Responsible AI Framework 
adoption.
•  Review sensitive or high-risk uses of AI proposed by our business units and 
incident reports for bias or discrimination.
Controls •  Incorporate security, privacy, and human rights principles into AI design, leveraging 
the existing Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle.
•  Require assessments for relevant AI use cases, models, and functions to identify, 
prevent, and mitigate potential risks, including risks to privacy, security, and human 
rights that meet or exceed assessment standards in the markets in which we 
operate.
Incident Management •  Leverage security, data breach, and privacy incident response system to manage 
reported AI incidents.
•  Assign and report incidents to the AI Governance Team to analyze and engage 
relevant team for resolution.
•  Track and report AI incidents and share findings and remediation steps to the 
original submitter or a broader group of stakeholders, customers, employees, and 
partners.
 Industry Leadership •  Establish AI governance practices with specific focus on proactively supporting and 
leading Cisco to deliver AI in a responsible and trustworthy manner.
•  Participate in leading industry forums, including those involving open source and 
other technology standardization bodies to advance the responsible use of AI.
 External Engagement •  Work with governments and regulatory bodies to understand global perspectives on 
AI’s benefits and risks.
•  Monitor, track, and influence AI-related legislation, emerging policy, standards, and 
regulations when and as appropriate.
•  Partner with cutting-edge research institutions, industry associations, and civil society 
organizations to develop best practices for AI development and governance from 
technical, organizational, social, and design perspectives.
Cisco is committed to continuing internal focus and collaboration with our external partners and stakeholders 
to improve our collective understanding of the societal and human rights impact of AI. We work to continuously 
improve our framework to support fair, explainable, and transparent results of the AI systems we develop and use.
Learn more about our approach to Responsible AI at the Cisco Trust Center.
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other 
countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. 
The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.