
--- Page 1 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
1
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
How agentic AI will transform 
customer experience
THE RACE TO AN AGENTIC FUTURE:
--- Page 2 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
2
Contents
3 Foreword
5 Research methodology
6 Introduction: Agentic AI-led customer 
experience is coming at speed
9 Customer experience has become 
mission-critical
10 Organizations are already feeling the benefits 
of AI deployment within customer experience
11 Customers are excited about the potential 
benefits of Agentic AI
12 A wide range of use cases across the 
technology lifecycle
13 Human connection will remain a critical 
component of customer experience
16 Robust governance and ethical practices are 
non-negotiable in Agentic AI deployment
18 Successful Agentic AI deployment can 
transform relationships and drive revenue for 
technology partners
19 Excitement grows about a future where Agentic 
AI-led customer experience becomes the new 
standard
20 Agentic AI-led customer experience is now an 
urgent priority for B2B technology businesses
21 About Cisco Customer Experience (CX)
--- Page 3 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
3
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 3
Imagine a world where no customer needs to 
restate their issues, where issues are resolved 
before they are experienced, and where every 
interaction feels tailored to individual needs, 
preferences and business outcomes. It’s not 
just a better experience, it’s a transformational 
one, going from frustration to delight.
For Enterprises, the integration of agentic AI 
into customer experience workflows solves 
problems we have been circling around 
for years. Persistent customer pain points, 
like redundant conversations with contact 
center agents, network configuration delays, 
and manual collection of infrastructure 
requirements and design documentation, 
become a thing of the past.
It’s no surprise then that this research 
uncovers overwhelming appetite and 
excitement for agentic AI-led customer 
experience. What is surprising, is the 
velocity! Business and technical decision 
makers are expecting their technology 
partners to pivot to an agentic future faster 
than anyone anticipated.
The numbers speak for themselves: 
customers expect 56% of their interactions 
to be handled by agentic AI within just 12 
months; and a staggering 68% within the 
next three years.
For many technology businesses, such 
a rapid shift towards agentic AI presents 
a monumental challenge. The technical 
complexity is daunting, and then if you layer 
on ethical considerations and the cultural 
transformation required to integrate AI into 
workflows at scale, it raises the stakes 
even higher. You have innovation, precision, 
responsibility, and focus on outcomes that 
need to come together. 
While agentic AI promises unparalleled 
efficiency, human connection remains 
irreplaceable. Complex problem solving, 
ethical judgement and empathy are uniquely 
human, that no algorithm can replace, at 
least not any time soon. We are all seeking 
that balance or harmony between agentic 
AI’s power and the human touch and     
intelligence that makes customer interactions 
truly meaningful.
Customer experience is entering a new era with agentic AI as the 
transformative force leading the way. Agentic AI will fundamentally 
change the very nature of services, enabling customer experience 
teams to make every interaction personalized, proactive, and predictive 
across every customer touchpoint. We can now deliver on our ultimate 
goal: making every customer feel like they are the only customer!
Foreword
BY LIZ CENTONI, EVP & CHIEF CUSTOMER 
EXPERIENCE OFFICER, CISCO

--- Page 4 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
4
Foreword
BY LIZ CENTONI, EVP & CHIEF CUSTOMER 
EXPERIENCE OFFICER, CISCO
As with any major transformation program, 
the journey to agentic AI-led customer 
experience will undoubtedly pose challenges 
and present risks for vendors. For those 
companies that embrace this transformation 
head-on, the payoff is not just improved 
customer experience metrics, it’s in market 
leadership in the AI era. It will reshape 
customer experience into a strategic 
differentiator, creating loyalty at scale.
At Cisco Customer Experience, we are 
defining this future. By combining cutting-
edge agentic AI with Cisco’s wealth of data, 
and four decades of human expertise, we 
are forging a new standard for customer 
experience - one that’s personalized, 
proactive, predictive, and profoundly 
human. The winners will be the ones who 
balance speed, innovation and trust. We are 
ready to lead that charge!
--- Page 5 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 5
Research methodology
To better understand customer attitudes 
towards, and appetite for, widespread 
deployment of agentic AI within customer 
experience, Cisco has undertaken 
comprehensive global research, from 
board-level directors and CIOs, through to 
senior and mid-level IT management.
Research conducted in 
April 2025 by Sandpiper 
Research & Insights.
This research comprised of:
7 ,950 
businesses
Interviews with 7,950 business and technical 
decision makers, in organizations with a 
turnover of at least $10 million. 55% of 
respondents work in organizations with a 
turnover of at least $100 million.
30 
markets
Interviews were conducted in 30 markets - Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, 
India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, Poland, Saudi, 
Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, 
United Kingdom, United States and Vietnam.
Respondents worked across a range of industries, 
including IT, manufacturing, financial services, 
retail, business services, engineering, construction, 
healthcare, transportation, and media and 
communications.
All respondents worked within job roles where they 
are interacting with customer experience services and 
support provided by B2B technology businesses.
--- Page 6 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
6
Agentic AI-led customer 
experience is coming at speed
Its arrival couldn’t come at a better time. As 
levels of IT complexity spiral, companies in 
every industry are facing an ever-tougher 
challenge to keep their IT environments 
and operations resilient and secure; to 
accelerate their most important strategic digital 
transformation projects; and to maximize value 
from their technology investments.  
As a result, organizations are leaning on 
their technology partners more than ever, 
and customer experience has never been         
more critical.
Agentic AI is set to be the most transformative technology to 
impact customer experience in decades, arguably since the 
beginning of this century and the shift to digital channels.
INTRODUCTION
--- Page 7 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
7
Agentic AI can provide the platform for 
B2B technology businesses to respond to 
evolving customer needs in ways previously 
unimaginable, helping organizations to 
overcome their most pressing strategic 
challenges across the technology lifecycle. 
Agentic AI is a category of artificial intelligence 
that leverages AI Agents and a contextualized 
interconnection among them. Agentic AI 
requires agency, meaning the AI Agents are 
capable of having memory, are task aware and 
possess the ability to take actions - or choose 
what actions to take - to achieve a particular 
outcome through the ability to learn from 
their environment and reason, with minimal      
human oversight.
The research paints a clear picture. There 
is now an overwhelming sense of optimism 
surrounding agentic AI and its potential to 
set a new standard for customer experience. 
Business and technical decision makers 
around the world recognize how this emerging 
technology can dramatically enhance the 
support and services they receive from their 
technology partners and, in turn, deliver 
tangible benefits to their own organizations.
Across the technology lifecycle, from 
strategy and planning, and design and 
deployment, through to adoption, operations 
and contract renewals, there is a seemingly 
endless set of use cases and workflows 
where agentic AI is expected to increase 
productivity, drive time and cost savings, and 
deliver more personalized, proactive and 
predictive experiences than ever before.
But not only is there great excitement about 
the potential of agentic AI within customer 
experience; there is also now a serious 
sense of urgency. Customers are looking 
for their technology partners to dramatically 
accelerate their agentic AI programs, 
and they’re expecting more than half of 
interactions with partners to be handled by 
agentic AI within the next 12 months.
This sudden acceleration of appetite may 
come as a shock to some technology 
vendors, and for those still in the early stages 
of thinking about agentic, it represents a 
major challenge. However, this growing 
urgency is not something they can ignore.
93% 88%
of respondents believe agentic 
AI will enable B2B technology 
businesses to deliver more 
personalized, proactive, and 
predictive services.
feel confident that agentic 
AI-led customer experience 
provided by B2B technology 
businesses will help their 
organization achieve its goals.
--- Page 8 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
8
89%
of respondents believe that 
B2B technology partners must 
combine human empathy 
and connection with agentic 
AI efficiency to optimize  
customer experience.
As the race to harness the capabilities of agentic AI intensifies, technology 
businesses must not overlook the need to approach its deployment in 
a responsible and ethical way. This research highlights respondents’  
concerns around the technical deployment of agentic AI, and technology 
businesses need to pay attention. This means putting in place the right 
governance structures to ensure the security and privacy of sensitive 
customer data, and to eliminate data bias and avoid unfair or discriminatory 
outcomes. These structures can also help ensure that there is human 
oversight where needed, for example, when multiple agents are making 
decisions that could impact human rights or human safety. The risks 
for businesses that fail to implement robust governance structures will          
be catastrophic.
The other important consideration in this pivot to agentic AI-led customer 
experience is the continuing need for human connection. This research 
reveals the extent to which customers value the human relationships 
they have with their technology partners, and the critical moments where 
they continue to favor human interaction. Technology businesses need to 
ensure frictionless experiences, where human workers and AI agents are 
operating effectively and harmoniously alongside each other.
We are entering a new era in customer experience. For B2B technology 
businesses, this is a defining moment. 
Those vendors that succeed in implementing agentic AI-led customer 
experience in an effective and ethical way, and meet the timelines 
set by their customers, will drive significant competitive advantage. 
Enhanced customer loyalty and trust, the ability to scale services at 
speed, and increased customer spend, are just some of the benefits 
that technology businesses are set to enjoy. 
Ultimately, when deployed strategically, agentic AI has the potential 
to transform relationships, positioning vendors as essential, strategic 
partners to their customers for many years to come.
--- Page 9 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
9
Customer experience has 
become mission-critical
Organizations are relying on their technology partners more than ever 
before. As IT complexity skyrockets – driven by accelerated digital 
transformation, the ongoing shift to cloud and hybrid computing, the 
race to harness the capabilities of AI-driven technologies, and a rapidly 
evolving regulatory landscape – respondents report that they are leaning 
more heavily on partners to help navigate these challenges.
Across the board, customer experience is now regarded as essential, 
and 72% of respondents describe the support and services provided by 
vendors as ‘very important’ .
In today’s environment, organizations aren’t simply looking for technology 
partners to help with troubleshooting and maintaining uptime of systems 
and applications. These partners have a key role to play throughout the 
whole technology lifecycle, from strategy and planning, and design and 
deployment, through to adoption, operations, and contract renewals.
Respondents point to a wide range of areas where technology partners 
can unlock value for their organizations, including maximizing investments 
in technology, supporting innovation, and delivering tailored solutions 
which directly align with key business challenges.
CUSTOMER VIEW
Top six ways in which 
B2B technology partners 
can deliver value through 
customer experience
92%
of respondents state that the 
customer experience support 
and services provided by 
B2B technology partners are 
becoming more critical as IT 
complexity increases within 
their organizations.
1. Help to get a deeper 
understanding of technology
2. Help to maximize investments in 
technology
3. Provide strategic counsel from 
experts in each technology domain
4. Reduce downtime, issue resolution 
time, and improve operational efficiency
5. Deliver personalized solutions tailored 
to specific needs of the customer
6. Provide updates on the latest 
technology trends and best practices
--- Page 10 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
10
Organizations are already feeling 
the benefits of AI deployment 
within customer experience
In response to this growing demand for 
enhanced customer experience, technology 
businesses have already started to introduce 
AI-powered technologies to improve their 
support and services.
The research reveals not only that customers 
are aware of this shift, but the extent to 
which they are already engaging with these           
AI-driven services and experiencing     
notable benefits.  
More than two thirds (68%) of respondents 
have used at least one AI-powered customer 
experience service provided by a B2B 
technology partner, and at every stage of the 
technology lifecycle, more than 50% have 
encountered an AI-powered service. 
Most commonly, they are consuming AI-
driven insights and analytics, or engaging with 
chatbots and virtual assistants. More than a 
third have also used AI-powered workflow 
automation, automated troubleshooting and 
diagnostics, and predictive analytics for       
issue resolution.
Significantly, more than 80% of those 
respondents that have engaged with AI-
powered support and services from their B2B 
technology partners report that they have had 
positive experiences; compared with only 4% 
who have been left feeling disappointed. 
Top use cases for AI-powered 
customer experience to date
1. AI-driven customer insights 
and analytics
2. Chatbots and virtual  
assistants for support
3. Chatbots and virtual assistants 
for customer success
4. Chatbots and virtual assistants 
for professional services
5. Workflow automation
6. Automated troubleshooting 
and diagnostics
7. Predictive analytics for 
issue resolution
8. Automated support ticket / 
support case systems
9. Documentation 
generation
10. Recommendations for  
next best action
--- Page 11 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
11
Customers are excited about the 
potential benefits of agentic AI
On the back of their positive experiences with AI-powered support and 
services, customers are now eager for their technology partners to drive 
further improvements in customer experience through wider and more 
sophisticated deployment of AI technologies.
In particular, they are aware that some technology businesses are 
now looking to enhance their customer experience offerings through 
deployment of agentic AI.
Most respondents are already familiar with agentic AI, with 33% reporting 
that they have a deep understanding of the technology and its applications, 
and 46% stating that they have a good grasp of the basics.
Business and technical decision makers recognize that agentic AI 
represents the next wave of innovation within AI, and many will be 
involved in initiatives to design and deploy agentic AI technologies 
within their own organizations. As a result, they’re easily able to 
understand its game-changing potential.
Across every region and every industry, respondents believe that 
agentic AI has the potential to transform customer experience over the 
coming years.
The top perceived 
benefits for customers 
of agentic AI-led 
customer experience
93%
of respondents believe agentic 
AI will enable B2B technology 
vendors to deliver more 
personalized, proactive, and 
predictive services.
88%
are confident that agentic 
AI-led customer experience 
will help their organization to 
achieve its goals.
1. Increased IT productivity
2. Cost savings
3. Greater accuracy in support  
and services
4. More proactive customer 
experience services and support
5. Increased up-time
6. Time savings
7. Ability to scale customer 
experience services and support
8. More personalized customer 
experience services and support
--- Page 12 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
12
A wide range of use cases 
across the technology lifecycle
Respondents believe that agentic AI is set to 
play a critical role throughout the technology 
lifecycle, with more than 80% pointing to 
potential benefits at every stage.
Customer and technical support, technology 
strategy and planning, and operations are 
viewed as the greatest opportunities for agentic 
AI to deliver value, but significant numbers 
of respondents also see opportunities within 
design and deployment, contract renewals    
and adoption. 
Looking at a more granular level at deployment 
of agentic AI at each stage of the technology 
lifecycle, IT productivity is seen as the 
number one benefit for customers across the 
board, followed closely by time savings, and           
cost savings.  
The research also indicates that agentic AI-led 
support and services can drive wider benefits at 
specific stages of the technology lifecycle. For 
instance, greater accuracy is cited as a potential 
advantage for customers during design and 
deployment, while in operations, technologists 
believe that agentic AI can lead to technology 
partners delivering more proactive support.
As you would expect with such a generational 
technology, respondents believe that agentic 
AI has the potential to deliver transformation 
for customers across a wide range of use 
cases and workflows.
Above all else, they point to opportunities to 
improve data analytics and insights for better 
decision making; aid troubleshooting and 
issue resolution; align technology investment 
with digital transformation goals; and support 
with adoption and training on the rollout of           
new technologies.
1. Enhancing data analytics 
and insights for smarter 
decision-making
2. Accelerating troubleshooting 
and issue resolution
3. Aligning technology 
investment strategy with 
digital transformation goals
Top five use cases for agentic AI-led customer 
experience to deliver value to customers
4. Supporting adoption 
and training for new 
technology rollouts
5. Optimizing the use of 
product features
55%
of respondents expect the introduction 
of agentic AI to significantly improve 
vendor performance in support ticket / 
case resolution times.
12
--- Page 13 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
13
Human connection will 
remain a critical component 
of customer experience
They feel that personal relationships 
are vital for vendors to build trust and 
demonstrate reliability, drive customer 
satisfaction, optimize communication, 
and resolve issues in a timely way.
 
Despite their enthusiasm for agentic 
AI, customers still want to maintain             
human interaction with their B2B     
technology partners. 
Respondents believe that human 
relationships are, and will continue to be, 
hugely important in how their organizations 
engage with technology partners 
throughout the technology lifecycle.

--- Page 14 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
14
The research highlights specific times where 
there will be a continuing need for human 
interaction with technology partners. These 
include complex problem-solving, tasks that 
require a high level of customization, regulatory 
compliance oversight, and issues which require 
serious ethical consideration. 
Customers want their technology partners 
to maximize the many benefits that agentic 
AI can drive across their support and 
services, but they don’t want this to come 
at the expense of meaningful and rewarding 
personal relationships. In their haste to 
transition to an agentic future, technology 
vendors must not neglect the critical need to 
maintain human empathy and engagement. 
Interestingly, respondents anticipate that 
the balance between agentic AI-led support 
and services, and human engagement, will 
change over time. 72% predict that the role of 
human interaction in customer experience will 
diminish as AI technology advances over the 
coming years.
This in turn will enable human workers to 
maximize their impact. Working in concert with 
AI Agents, customer experience professionals 
will be able to focus on higher value tasks, 
utilizing their expertise, experience and 
unique capabilities to forge deeper, strategic 
relationships with customers. 
Respondents see advantages to this shift, 
recognizing that agentic AI can address 
some of the shortcomings that they currently 
encounter in their everyday interactions with 
B2B technology businesses.
Most notably, respondents point to frequent 
personnel churn within customer experience 
teams as their biggest frustration with vendors. 
60% report that they are constantly or often 
having to deal with this type of churn which 
can be hugely disruptive, exposing gaps in 
knowledge amongst new team members and 
slowing down delivery of projects.in knowledge 
amongst new team members and slowing 
down delivery of projects. 
89%
state that technology businesses 
must combine human empathy and 
connection with agentic AI efficiency 
to optimize customer experience.
76%
believe that agentic AI is currently 
unable to replicate human empathy in 
customer experience.
1. Increased trust and  
reliability
2. Enhanced customer 
satisfaction
3. Improved communication
4. Faster resolution of issues
How human relationships with B2B technology 
vendors deliver value for customers
5. A deep understanding of the 
customer’s business needs
6. Strong network and 
contacts
7. Access to technical expertise
8. Personalized services
96%
of respondents consider human 
relationships to be very important 
when interacting with their B2B 
technology partners. 
--- Page 15 ---
Ten key characteristics 
for AI Agents within 
customer experience
1. Security and privacy: Ensures data 
protection and regulatory compliance
2. Proactive problem-solving: Identifies and 
addresses issues before they escalate
3. Able to work alongside humans:  
Seamlessly integrates with human teams 
to enhance collaboration and efficiency
4. Provides real-time insights:  Offers 
immediate data and analytics to inform 
decision-making
5. Adaptability: Learns and evolves based 
on new information and changing 
circumstances
6. Scalability: Can handle increasing volumes 
of interactions without compromising quality
7. Personalization:  Tailors responses and 
solutions to individual customer needs
8. Multi-lingual: Ability to communicate in 
multiple languages to support diverse 
customer bases
9. Summarizes interactions:  Capable of 
summarizing customer interactions for  
quick reference and follow-up
10. Analyzes sentiment:  Detects and 
interprets customer emotions to improve 
service and engagement
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 15
Other challenges within these relationships 
include miscommunication between parties, 
customers having limited access to required 
expertise, and inconsistencies in the  
quality-of-service delivery.  
The need for close cooperation between 
humans and AI agents is highlighted 
throughout the research. Respondents 
stress that AI agents need to be able to work 
alongside and provide frictionless handovers 
to human colleagues. And the same applies 
when people hand off to AI agents.
Respondents have clear ideas about the 
characteristics and capabilities that AI agents 
deployed by B2B technology vendors should 
possess. They want Agents to be able 
to handle data securely and compliantly,       
and to proactively identify and solve 
issues in a timely way. Other key attributes 
include adapting to new information 
and changing circumstances, providing 
personalized responses based on individual         
customer needs, and communicating in 
multiple languages.
1. Personnel churn and having to 
deal with frequent changes in 
customer experience teams
2. Miscommunication or 
misunderstandings
3. Limited access to specific 
expertise
4. Availability of customer 
experience team members
The biggest challenges in human relationships 
with B2B technology businesses
5. Knowledge gaps within 
customer experience  
teams
6. Inconsistent service  
quality
7. The need to repeat information 
due to lack of notetaking
--- Page 16 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
16
Robust governance and ethical 
practices are non-negotiable 
in agentic AI deployment
For all the excitement which surrounds 
the use of agentic AI, there is of course 
widespread recognition that AI-powered 
technologies must be used in a responsible 
and ethical way.
This is certainly the case when it comes 
to B2B technology vendors deploying 
agentic AI within their customer experience 
functions. The research identifies several 
concerns that customers have around 
the technical deployment of agentic AI. 
Most of all, customers want to know that 
their technology partners have the right 
governance and guardrails in place to ensure 
the security and privacy of sensitive customer 
data, and to protect it from unauthorized 
access or breaches. They also highlight the 
importance of accuracy within technical 
agentic AI deployment, so that agents 
are always delivering precise and relevant 
responses, solutions, and recommendations. 

--- Page 17 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
17
1. Security and privacy of 
customer data
2. Advanced AI technology 
and tools
3. Customer-centric AI design
4. Appropriately skilled staff to 
program models
5. Continuous improvement 
and innovation
Ten factors for B2B technology 
businesses to address when deploying 
agentic AI in customer experience
6. Robust governance arrangements 
to ensure ethical and fair use of AI
7. Transparent communication  
and reporting
8. Scalability and flexibility
9. Comprehensive training programs 
for customers
10. Seamless integration with existing 
systems
68%
of respondents believe that the 
development of agentic AI poses 
ethical or safety concerns.
Other critical factors that customers want 
technology partners to address in the future 
within their AI deployments include the 
elimination of data bias, to ensure agentic AI 
does not perpetuate or amplify existing biases 
in data and lead to unfair or discriminatory 
outcomes; and the need for trust that agentic 
AI can be relied upon to make fair decisions.
Almost all respondents (99%) state that 
it’s important for technology partners to 
demonstrate robust governance arrangements 
to deliver ethical and fair use of agentic AI. 
It’s not enough for organizations to be doing 
all the right things when it comes to their 
deployment of agentic AI; they need to display 
and communicate what they are doing with 
complete transparency.
The current sense of optimism and 
excitement surrounding agentic AI-led 
customer experience could soon dissipate if 
customers sense that technology businesses 
aren’t taking a responsible approach. 
Indeed, 81% of respondents feel that vendors 
need to share their vision for AI-led customer 
experience to bring customers along on the 
journey, and 79% believe that they should be 
doing more to communicate this vision.
It’s therefore alarming that a quarter (25%) of 
respondents report that they don’t currently 
have detailed knowledge of how their B2B 
technology partners plan to use agentic AI to 
enhance customer experience.

--- Page 18 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
18
Successful agentic AI 
deployment can transform 
relationships and drive revenue 
for technology partners
Respondents believe that the introduction of agentic AI into customer 
experience support and services will also deliver game-changing impact 
for their B2B technology partners.
Technology businesses who successfully and ethically deploy agentic AI 
across the technology lifecycle will enjoy a range of benefits including 
access to data-driven insights, improved scalability within their support 
and services, and greater customer loyalty. The majority (52%) of 
respondents predict that effective AI deployment will also lead to higher 
customer spend and increased revenues.
Crucially, the introduction of agentic AI will enable technology 
businesses to achieve one of their most important long-term objectives, 
with 86% of respondents stating that agentic AI can help them to 
become essential partners to - and intrinsic to the ongoing success of - 
their customers.
On the other hand, vendors who are left behind in their agentic AI 
deployment, or those who fail to deploy agentic AI in an effective, secure 
and ethical manner, are likely to encounter negative consequences. 
Respondents cite missed opportunities to create new revenue streams, a 
deterioration in customer relationships, reputational damage, and higher 
levels of customer churn as some of the ways in which vendors will suffer.
Most likely benefits for technology 
partners who successfully      
deploy agentic AI within     
customer experience
74%
of respondents state that 
customers are more likely to 
trust B2B technology vendors 
that use agentic AI to improve 
their service offerings.
81%
expect vendors that 
strategically deploy agentic AI 
to gain a competitive edge.
77%
warn that vendors that do not 
prioritize customer needs in 
their agentic AI deployment 
risk damaging their reputation.
1. Improved operational efficiency 
within vendor organization
2. Ability to scale up customer 
experience with ease
3. Access to improved data 
insights to streamline customer 
experience
4. Increased customer spend / 
revenue
5. Higher levels of customer trust as 
a result of robust security
6. Accelerated time-to-market as 
agentic AI will streamline contract 
and onboarding processes
7. Enhanced customer loyalty
--- Page 19 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
19
Excitement grows about 
a future where agentic 
AI-led customer experience 
becomes the new standard
Overall, the research paints a hugely optimistic 
picture, where widescale deployment of 
agentic AI sets a new standard for customer 
experience across the technology industry.
Customers predict that agentic AI will play an 
increasingly prominent role in their interactions 
with technology vendors over the coming 
years, and they are hugely upbeat about what 
this will bring. 
Significantly, respondents expect the shift 
to agentic AI-led customer experience 
to advance at a rapid rate. They predict 
that 56% of their customer experience 
interactions with technology partners will 
be handled by agentic AI within the next 12 
months, and 68% within the next three years. 
This means that by 2028, customers are 
looking for more than two thirds of their 
engagement with partners to be through 
agentic AI.  
This phenomenal appetite for agentic        
AI-led customer experience will come as a 
major shock to many technology vendors 
who are only just beginning to explore the      
potential for agentic AI within their support 
and services. 
88%
of respondents feel confident 
that the agentic AI-led customer 
experience provided by their 
technology partners will help their 
organization achieve its goals.
A timeline for 
agentic AI-led 
customer experience
56%
68%
79%
Within 
12 months
Within 
3 years
Within 
10 years
TIMEFRAME
PERCENTAGE OF PARTNER 
INTERACTIONS EXPECTED TO 
BE HANDLED BY AGENTIC AI
--- Page 20 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
20
Agentic AI-led customer experience 
is now an urgent priority for B2B 
tecnology businesses
This research illustrates how the emergence 
of agentic AI-led customer experience 
presents a bona fide win-win situation for both 
technology vendors and their customers. At 
a time when organizations are relying on the 
support and services of technology partners 
more than ever, agentic AI can be the catalyst 
for a new standard in customer experience.
By deploying agentic AI, technology 
businesses can provide customers with 
more personalized, proactive and predictive 
experiences across the technology lifecycle. 
And this in turn will lead to faster resolution 
times, greater IT productivity and significant 
time and cost savings. Crucially, agentic 
AI-led customer experience will enable 
organizations to keep their environments 
resilient and secure, to accelerate their 
strategic innovation programs, and to 
maximize their investments in technology.
The upsides of agentic AI-led customer 
experience for B2B technology businesses 
are immense: the ability to scale support 
and services at speed; access to valuable 
new data and insights; and most importantly, 
stickier, more strategic and profitable 
relationships with customers. 
As this research shows, agentic AI is not a 
‘future’ technology; it’s here now and already 
being deployed by forward-thinking B2B 
technology businesses across their customer 
experience support and services. Excitement 
is sky high, but so too are expectations. 
Customers want more than half of all 
interactions with their technology partners 
to be agentic AI-powered within the next 12 
months; and more than two thirds by 2028.
81%
of respondents believe that agentic 
AI will enable B2B technology 
vendors to transform the way that 
they support customers.
For technology businesses, the time to act 
is now. They need to develop strategies for 
agentic AI-led customer experience which fully 
harness the capabilities of this groundbreaking 
technology, while also establishing guardrails 
to ensure ethical and responsible deployment. 
Technology partners must also strike the 
right balance between agentic AI efficiency 
and human empathy and connection within 
customer experience.
This is the challenge for the B2B technology 
industry, and vendors simply cannot afford to 
fall behind. To succeed in an agentic future, 
technology businesses need to innovate at 
speed to build bespoke, world-class solutions 
for customer experience, and ensure they 
have the wealth of high-quality data and 
human expertise to support agentic AI models.
Agentic AI is redefining customer experience, 
and businesses who lead the way in this 
transformation will undoubtedly reap            
the rewards. 
--- Page 21 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
21
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Cisco is uniquely positioned to deliver the 
future of customer experience for the AI 
era. We’re combining bespoke, cutting-
edge agentic AI innovation, with Cisco’s 
wealth of data and human expertise, to set 
a new standard in customer experience.  
We’re building agentic AI from the ground-
up, innovating from within to deliver 
bespoke agentic AI-driven functionality 
across the technology lifecycle.   
Cisco is creating an intelligent, proactive 
ecosystem where systems auto-repair 
and optimize for performance and security 
in real-time, before customers even need 
to engage. In doing so, we’re delivering 
an agentic future for customer experience 
- one that’s personalized, proactive, 
predictive, and profoundly human.
About Cisco Customer 
Experience (CX)

--- Page 22 ---
© 2025 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
22
Americas Headquarters  
Cisco Systems, Inc. 
San Jose, CA
Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco Website at  
www.cisco.com/go/offices
Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks of registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view 
a list of Cisco trademarks, go to www.cisco.com/go/trademarks . Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective 
owners. To use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1110R)
Asia Pacific Headquarters 
Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.  
Singapore
Europe Headquarters  
Cisco Systems International  
BV Amsterdam, The Netherlands